# Election Analysis with Python

## Project Overview
The client, the Colorado Board of Elections represented by its employees Tom and Seth, requested an audit of the recorded results for an election in one of the state's precincts comprised of three of its counties.  Initial analysis included: 1) a count of the total votes cast, 2) total votes by candidate, 3) percentage of total votes by candidate, and 4) the candidate that received the greatest number of votes (the winning candidate).  The client provided an initial data set and received: 1) the code file for future use, and 2) a .txt report of the requested results.

## Challenge Overview
Following this initial audit, the client requested data disaggregated to the county level, reporting: 1) each county's voter turnout, 2) each county's percent of the total votes cast, and 3) the county with the highest recorded number of votes.

## Purpose
The client will receive three deliverables: 1) the amended code file, 2) the amended .txt report, and 3) this summary of the results.

## Resources
- Data source: election_results.csv
- Software: Python 3.7.6 (v3.7.6:43364a7ae0, Dec 18 2019, 14:18:50)

## Summary
The text report generated by this data file reports the following:
1. There were 369,711 total votes cast
2. Three counties participated in this election:
  - Jefferson: 10.5% of total votes (38,855 votes)
  - Denver: 82.8% of total votes (306,055 votes)
  - Arapahoe: 6.7% of total votes (24,801 votes)
3. The county with the largest turnout was Denver
4. Three candidates participated in this election:
  - Charles Casper Stockham: 23.0% of total votes (85,213 votes)
  - Diana DeGette: 73.8% of total votes (272,892 votes)
  - Raymon Anthony Doane: 3.1% of total votes (11,606 votes)
5. The winner of the election was Diana DeGette with 73.8% of the total votes (272,892 votes) cast

## Challenges
No significant challenges were encountered writing this code.  Python is simpler, more user-friendly, and its syntax more logically organized and defined than VBA.  Reading code patterns and adapting them to new uses is direct and clear and un-nuanced, and I have loved working in Python.

One minor challenge I encountered was the use of os/relative file paths in Python.  Troubleshooting the module instructions as well as the relevant steps in the starter code did not yield a solution that allowed me to use the relative file path method of assigning files to read and write to; I provided a direct file path for both files.  Although I'm not certain of the reason the relative file path method was problematic, I suspect it's specific to this machine.  Direct file paths in the module were very short; my direct file paths are much longer, each file is nested within many directories, and the files are ultimately hosted online.  I speculate that Python's relative file path feature, while useful in most contexts, is not yet ideal for navigating complex file paths.

### Challenge deliverables
1. README.md summary
2. PyPoll_Challenge.py file
3. election_results.txt output/report
